Haste
=====

A compiler to generate Javascript code from Haskell.


Building
--------

Clone [Fursuit](https://github.com/valderman/fursuit) and install it using `cabal install`, then do the same for
haste-compiler and finally run `haste-boot` (or `~/.cabal/bin/haste-boot` if
you don't have ~/.cabal/bin on your $PATH). That's it; you're now (hopefully)
ready to build your first Haste application.

I'd strongly recommend adding ~/.cabal/bin to your $PATH, or you'll have to
invoke Haste as ~/.cabal/bin/hastec, which is sort of awkward.


Building your own base libraries
--------------------------------

First off, build Fursuit and Haste using cabal.

Next step, download the source code of a recent version of GHC (7.4.1 is the
only version tested so far) and run `./buildlibs.sh $PATH_TO_GHC_SOURCE` from
within the Haste directory.

Finally, run `haste-boot --force --no-base` to install the Haste and Fursuit
libraries on top of your custom base package.


Usage
-----

To compile your Haskell program to a Javascript blob ready to be included in an
HTML document or run using a command line interpreter:

    $ hastec myprog.hs

This is equivalent to calling ghc --make myprog.hs; Main.main will be called
as soon as the JS blob has finished loading.

You can pass the same flags to hastec as you'd normally pass to GHC:

    $ hastec -O2 -fglasgow-exts myprog.hs

Haste also has its own set of command line arguments. Invoke it with --help to
read more about them.


Reactive web EDSL
-----------------

Haste comes with a basic, environment for writing client side web applications
in a reactive fashion. See Fursuit for more information.

As the reactive library relies heavily on Applicative, you may find the idiom
brackets of the Strathclyde Haskell Enhancement
(https://personal.cis.strath.ac.uk/~conor/pub/she/) quite useful.


Libraries
---------

Haste is able to use the standard Haskell libraries to a certain extent.
However, there are a few caveats. The base libraries need to be built on a 32
bit machine as Javascript stores everything as Double, which isn't enough for
64 bit integers.

Many library features also make use of native functionality that is hard or
impossible to implement on top of Javascript; the Read type class, with its
heavy use of iconv, is a prime example.


Why yet another Haskell to Javascript compiler?
-----------------------------------------------

Existing implementations either produce huge code, require a fair amount of
work to get going, or both. With Haste, the idea is to give you a drop-in
replacement for GHC that generates relatively lean code.


Known issues
------------

* No 64-bit math. Use Integer if you need large integers, use Double if you
  want as fast math as possible (yes, even for integer math.)

* Same-named modules in different packages overwrite each other when compiling
  with --libinstall.

* Not all GHC primops are implemented; if you encounter an unimplemented
  primop, I'd be happy if you'd report it together with a small test case that
  demonstrates the problem.

* Base libraries built on a 64 bit machine won't work. Don't even bother.

* Read is completely broken until a JS-native alternative can be written.

* Conversions between basic numeric types and strings work, but shouldn't
  really be used since they're doing a lot of work for something that's
  a primitive operation in JS. JS-native substitutes are available in the form
  of show_, read_ and round_ for all types which have an underlying Number
  representation with Haste (Int, Float and Double.)

* A program that throws unhandled exceptions may not always give a nice error
  message.

* Word32 produces funny results on some machines; use Word instead, which is
  guaranteed to be 32 bits with Haste.
